h1. LegStar for Mule

h2. Overview

LegStar for Mule provides Transformers and Transports for IBM mainframes. It is based on the [LegStar open-source mainframe integration|http://www.legsem.com/legstar] project.

Legs4Mule has design time features that generate artifacts for Mule:

* Generated Transformers are standard Mule transformers that turn mainframe data, described by COBOL structures, into Java objects or XML. These transformers use the [LegStar COBOL binding features, based on JAXB|http://www.legsem.com/legstar/legstar-coxbgen/].
* Generated Mainframe Adapters services give Mule clients access to mainframe programs over HTTP or WebSphere MQ.
* Generated Mainframe Proxy services give mainframe programs access to Mule components over HTTP or WebSphere MQ.

h2. Benefits

* End-to-end open-source mainframe integration solution
* Flexible COBOL binding framework based on Java binding (JAXB)
* Completely integrated in Mule 2.0, using the same configuration framework
* Bi-directional, mainframe acts as server for Mule clients or as client for Mule services
* Choice of HTTP or WebSphere MQ wire protocols to reach the mainframe
* Binary wire protocol between Mule and the mainframe, reduces overhead

h2. Status

Legs4Mule 1.0-RC4 is available for download from [here|http://dist.muleforge.org/legstar-transport/].

Version 1.0-RC4 has been tested with Mule 2.2.1.

The project is seeking contributors.

h2. Documentation

[Installation instructions|InstallationInstructions]

[Quickstart for mainframe adapter using ant|MuleLegStarAdapterQuickStartAnt]

[Quickstart for mainframe proxy using ant|MuleLegStarProxyQuickStartAnt]

[Quickstart for mainframe adapter using Eclipse|MuleLegStarAdapterQuickStartEclipse]

[Quickstart for mainframe proxy using Eclipse|MuleLegStarProxyQuickStartEclipse]

h2. Links

* [Training and support|http://www.legsem.com/]
* [PL/I to COBOL Structure converter|http://code.google.com/p/legstar-pli2cob/]




